README.md, before:

CEVidium - Video Conversion and On-Calculator Playback Project
==============================================================
Warning:
* **This only works on the TI-84+ CE.**
* This will not work on the TI-84+ CSE.
* This will not work on any TI-84+ (SE)

Motivation
----------
I wanted to see Bad Apple play on my TI-84 CE.
Then I wanted to see more cool stuff.

Project Dependencies
--------------------
* Python 2.7.x
* FFmpeg (you may need to Google how to install this; they don't make it easy)
* ffmpy (Python library used to link to FFmpeg; install via pip/pip2)
* pillow (Python Imaging Library fork; install via pip/pip2)
* CE programming toolchain (described in the video player section)


Converting the Video
--------------------
1. Copy your .MP4 or other video file to the CEVENCODER folder.
2. Rename that video to a name that contains 8 or less characters.
3. Open a command prompt in the CEVENCODER folder.
4. Type: 
   * `BUILD2.BAT -h`
5. Read the options, then retype the above line without the '-h' flag and with
   the flags that you want. For example, if your input video is MYVID.mp4 and you
   wanted to use the 96-by-X 4 level grayscale encoding with dithering:
   * `BUILD2.BAT -i MYVID.mp4 -e M1G4 -d`
6. If everything worked, copy the contents of CEVENCODER/bin to your calculator.

Building and Sending the Video Player
-------------------------------------
1. If you have not installed the CE programming toolchain, download and install
   from: https://github.com/CE-Programming/toolchain/releases
2. Open a command prompt in the CEVPLAY folder and type the following in order:
   * `make gfx`
   * `make`
3. If everything worked, copy CEVPLAY/bin/CEVIDIUM.8xp to your calculator.

Building and Sending the Decoders
---------------------------------
1. Double-click CEVDECODER/build.bat to run it.
2. If everything worked, copy the contents of CEVDECODER/bin to your calculator.

Copyrights and Licenses
-----------------------
* The ZX7 (de)compression code and executable was done by Einar Saukas.
  See CEVENCODER/tools/ZX7_LICENSE for details.
* SPASM-ng (e)z80 assembler was done by a bunch of people.
  See CEVDECODER/tools/SPASM_LICENSE for details.
* The rest of Project CEVidium was done by me.
  See LICENSE for details.
  
Acknowledgements
----------------
* Merged fix for counting logic, by github user ctrefethen
* Those fixes for the original version of the encoder, by commandblockguy, whose
  pull requests I mismanaged because I didn't know what I was doing. (sorry!)
  
Controlling the Video Player
----------------------------

Controls on video selection:

| Keys     |  Function         |
|---------:|:------------------|
|[Mode]    | Quit CEVidium     |
|[2nd]     | Start video       |
|arrow keys| Show next video   |

Controls during playback:

| Keys     |  Function                         |
|---------:|:----------------------------------|
|[Mode]    | Retrun to video selection         |
|[2nd]     | (Un)pause the video               |
|[Left]    | Rewind video by one segment       |
|[Right]   | Fast forward video by one segment |


 
Version History
---------------
* 0.00 - Initial commit
* 0.01 - Updated the documentation to make what's available actually useable
* 0.02 - Updated docs again, figuring out merge stuff to include others' improvements.
* 0.03 - Fixed a bug that prevented 4:3 video playback with the M1X2-ZX7 decoder.
		 Also changed UI spacing in the media player for readability and made
		 it easier to make other changes like that in the future.

Known Issues
------------
* Deprecated the original encoder toolkit without prior notice but still have
  references for it for debugging purposes. You should be using BUILD2.bat
* If you choose to modify the build to use the old codecs, encoder 4 (DECODR03)
  is known to crash.

Commit message:

Started work on CEVENCODER; updated readme.

README.md, after:

CEVidium - Video Conversion and On-Calculator Playback Project
==============================================================
Warning:
* **This only works on the TI-84+ CE.**
* This will not work on the TI-84+ CSE.
* This will not work on any TI-84+ (SE)

NOTE
----
Apr 16, 2025: There is active work being done both in this file and in the `CEVENCODER` folder. The contents of the aforementioned items will get far worse before it'll get better. The project /should/ work the same as it used to (for varying values of "work", according to the issues tracker) during this transition, but everything should be better, if different, in the end.

Motivation
----------
I wanted to see Bad Apple play on my TI-84 CE.
Then I wanted to see more cool stuff.

Project Dependencies
--------------------
* Python 2.7.x
* FFmpeg (you may need to Google how to install this; they don't make it easy)
* ffmpy (Python library used to link to FFmpeg; install via pip/pip2)
* pillow (Python Imaging Library fork; install via pip/pip2)
* CE programming toolchain (described in the video player section)


Converting the Video
--------------------
1. Copy your .MP4 or other video file to the CEVENCODER folder.
2. Rename that video to a name that contains 8 or less characters.
3. Open a command prompt in the CEVENCODER folder.
4. Type: 
   * `BUILD2.BAT -h`
5. Read the options, then retype the above line without the '-h' flag and with
   the flags that you want. For example, if your input video is MYVID.mp4 and you
   wanted to use the 96-by-X 4 level grayscale encoding with dithering:
   * `BUILD2.BAT -i MYVID.mp4 -e M1G4 -d`
6. If everything worked, copy the contents of CEVENCODER/bin to your calculator.

Building and Sending the Video Player
-------------------------------------
1.  This project is built with the CE programming toolchain version `12.1`,
    though it is possible that later versions may also build it.
    [Click here to find instructions on installing, including links to the latest build](https://ce-programming.github.io/toolchain/static/getting-started.html#getting-started).
    If you need a link to the releases in case something there doesn't work
    right, [click here](https://github.com/CE-Programming/toolchain/releases).
2. Open a command prompt in the CEVPLAY folder and type the following in order:
   * `make gfx`
   * `make`
3. If everything worked, copy CEVPLAY/bin/CEVIDIUM.8xp to your calculator.

Building and Sending the Decoders
---------------------------------
1. Double-click CEVDECODER/build.bat to run it.
2. If everything worked, copy the contents of CEVDECODER/bin to your calculator.

Copyrights and Licenses
-----------------------
* The ZX7 (de)compression code and executable was done by Einar Saukas.
  See CEVENCODER/tools/ZX7_LICENSE for details.
* SPASM-ng (e)z80 assembler was done by a bunch of people.
  See CEVDECODER/tools/SPASM_LICENSE for details.
* The rest of Project CEVidium was done by me.
  See LICENSE for details.
  
Acknowledgements
----------------
* Merged fix for counting logic, by github user ctrefethen
* Those fixes for the original version of the encoder, by commandblockguy, whose
  pull requests I mismanaged because I didn't know what I was doing. (sorry!)
  
Controlling the Video Player
----------------------------

Controls on video selection:

| Keys     |  Function         |
|---------:|:------------------|
|[Mode]    | Quit CEVidium     |
|[2nd]     | Start video       |
|arrow keys| Show next video   |

Controls during playback:

| Keys     |  Function                         |
|---------:|:----------------------------------|
|[Mode]    | Retrun to video selection         |
|[2nd]     | (Un)pause the video               |
|[Left]    | Rewind video by one segment       |
|[Right]   | Fast forward video by one segment |


 
Version History
---------------
* 0.00 - Initial commit
* 0.01 - Updated the documentation to make what's available actually useable
* 0.02 - Updated docs again, figuring out merge stuff to include others' improvements.
* 0.03 - Fixed a bug that prevented 4:3 video playback with the M1X2-ZX7 decoder.
		 Also changed UI spacing in the media player for readability and made
		 it easier to make other changes like that in the future.

Known Issues
------------
* Deprecated the original encoder toolkit without prior notice but still have
  references for it for debugging purposes. You should be using BUILD2.bat
* If you choose to modify the build to use the old codecs, encoder 4 (DECODR03)
  is known to crash.
